README.md, before:

# *FeAmGen.jl*: A julia program for **Fe**ynman **Am**plitude **Gen**eration

## Requirement

*FeAmGen.jl* needs following external programs. All of them could be installed via Julia Yggdrasil and JLL dependencies.

1. FORM: [main page](https://www.nikhef.nl/~form/) and [GitHub](https://github.com/vermaseren/form);
2. Nauty: [main page](https://pallini.di.uniroma1.it);
3. QGRAF: [main page](http://cfif.ist.utl.pt/~paulo/qgraf.html). It cannot be installed via Julia Yggdrasil project because of its license. We provide, however, an automated compilition for it in our program. The users should accept the agreement of its license before using this package.

## Installation

1. Please add the [IHEP-Multiloop Julia registry](https://code.ihep.ac.cn/IHEP-Multiloop/JuliaRegistry.git) via

```julia
import Pkg
Pkg.Registry.add(
  Pkg.RegistrySpec(url="https://code.ihep.ac.cn/IHEP-Multiloop/JuliaRegistry.git")
)
```

or in the Julia REPL via

```julia-repl
]registry add https://code.ihep.ac.cn/IHEP-Multiloop/JuliaRegistry.git
```

2. Install `FeAmGen.jl` via

```julia
import Pkg
Pkg.add("FeAmGen")
```

or in the Julia REPL via

```julia-repl
]add FeAmGen
```

## Usage

This package can be used for the following missions.

1. Generate Feynman diagrams and relevant amplitudes for specific process, e.g. [`test/DrellYan_Test.jl`](https://code.ihep.ac.cn/IHEP-Multiloop/FeAmGen.jl/-/blob/main/test/DrellYan_Test.jl), and etc.
2. Construct the topologies based on the generated amplitudes, e.g. [`test/script_construct_topology.jl`](https://code.ihep.ac.cn/IHEP-Multiloop/FeAmGen.jl/-/blob/main/test/script_construct_topology.jl).

## Main function

### 1. `digest_seed_proc( <seed process file>; <model directory list> )`

Generate input files for the specific process according to generic seed process file.
And the model file will be searched in the given model directory. 

For example,

```julia
digest_seed_proc( "seed_proc.yaml" )
```
---

### 2. `generate_amp( <process file>; <model directory list> )`

Generate Feynman diagrams and relevant amplitudes according to the process input file previously generated by `digest_seed_proc`.
And the model file will be searched in the given model directory. 

For example,

```julia
generate_amp( "parton_parton_TO_parton_t_0Loop/b_u_TO_d_t.yaml" )
```
---

### 3. `construct_den_topology( <amplitude directory>; mom_shift_opt::Bool = true )`

Construct topologies for specific process, `mom_shift_opt` for doing the momentum shift or not.

For example,

```julia
construct_den_topology( "b_g_TO_Wminus_t_2Loop/b_g_TO_Wminus_t_2Loop_amplitudes"; mom_shift_opt=true )
```

## Results

The results contain amplitudes in file `amp<number>.jld2` and `amp<number>.out` and the Feynman diagrams in file `visual_diagram<number>.tex`.
Explicitly one could use `lualatex visual_diagram<number>.tex` to generate PDF file with `tikz-feynman.sty`.

## Notice

Here we use directly the [UFO model files](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2012.01.022) stored in the `<model directory>`.

***NOTE:***
***If the UFO model files are based on Python2, one can convert them into Python3 scripts by using the script `2to3`, which may be found in for example `Python-3.8.1/Tools/scripts`***.
***Package `PyCall.jl` can be build with relevant version of Python. The method can be found in its [GitHub homepage](https://github.com/JuliaPy/PyCall.jl).***

## Documentation

Full documentation can be generated by using `julia make.jl` in `docs`.

## License

MIT license.

## Citations

The corresponding paper is preprinted as [arXiv:2310.07967 [hep-ph]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.07634).

If you use this package in your research work, please cite this paper via
```bibtex
@article{Wu:2023qbr,
    author = "Wu, Quan-feng and Li, Zhao",
    title = "{FeAmGen.jl: A Julia Program for Feynman Amplitude Generation}",
    eprint = "2310.07634",
    archivePrefix = "arXiv",
    primaryClass = "hep-ph",
    month = "10",
    year = "2023"
}
```

Commit message:

update README.md for installation instructions.

README.md, after:

# *FeAmGen.jl*: A julia program for **Fe**ynman **Am**plitude **Gen**eration

## Requirements

*FeAmGen.jl* needs following external programs:

1. FORM: [main page](https://www.nikhef.nl/~form/) and [GitHub](https://github.com/vermaseren/form).
  It can be installed via the [Julia Yggdrasil project](https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Yggdrasil/) automatically as a dependency [FORM_jll.jl](https://github.com/JuliaBinaryWrappers/FORM_jll.jl);
2. Nauty: [main page](https://pallini.di.uniroma1.it).
  It can be installed via the [Julia Yggdrasil project](https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Yggdrasil/) automatically as a dependency [nauty_jll.jl](https://github.com/JuliaBinaryWrappers/nauty_jll.jl);
3. QGRAF: [main page](http://cfif.ist.utl.pt/~paulo/qgraf.html).
  It cannot be installed via the [Julia Yggdrasil project](https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Yggdrasil/) because of its license, see this [PR](https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Yggdrasil/pull/6284) for more information.
  We provide, however, an automated compilition for it in our program, which requires a Fortran compiler  (`gfortran` as default).
  If the user wants to use other Fortran compiler, please add environment variable `ENV["FC"] = "/path/to/Fortran/compiler` in the Julia startup file (`~/.julia/config/startup.jl` as default, see this [url](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/command-line-interface/#Startup-file) for more information).
  If the user have already installed QGRAF and want to use it, please add environment variable `ENV["QGRAF"] = "/path/to/QGRAF"` in the Julia startup file.
  The users should accept the agreement of its license (see the heads of its main source code file) before using this package.

## Installation

1. Please add the [IHEP-Multiloop Julia registry](https://code.ihep.ac.cn/IHEP-Multiloop/JuliaRegistry.git) via
```julia
import Pkg
Pkg.Registry.add(
  Pkg.RegistrySpec(url="https://code.ihep.ac.cn/IHEP-Multiloop/JuliaRegistry.git")
)
```
or in the Julia REPL via
```julia-repl
]registry add https://code.ihep.ac.cn/IHEP-Multiloop/JuliaRegistry.git
```

2. Install `FeAmGen.jl` via
```julia
import Pkg
Pkg.add("FeAmGen")
```
or in the Julia REPL via
```julia-repl
]add FeAmGen
```

3. The possible problems during the installation is `PyCall.jl` and `Conda.jl` need to be built.
  Please run the following commands to build them.
```julia
import Pkg
Pkg.build("Conda")
Pkg.build("PyCall")
```
or in the Julia REPL as
```julia-repl
]build Conda
]build PyCall
```

## Usage

This package can be used for the following missions.

1. Generate Feynman diagrams and relevant amplitudes for specific process, e.g. [`test/DrellYan_Test.jl`](https://code.ihep.ac.cn/IHEP-Multiloop/FeAmGen.jl/-/blob/main/test/DrellYan_Test.jl), and etc.
2. Construct the topologies based on the generated amplitudes, e.g. [`test/script_construct_topology.jl`](https://code.ihep.ac.cn/IHEP-Multiloop/FeAmGen.jl/-/blob/main/test/script_construct_topology.jl).

## Main function

### 1. `digest_seed_proc( <seed process file>; <model directory list> )`

Generate input files for the specific process according to generic seed process file.
And the model file will be searched in the given model directory. 

For example,

```julia
digest_seed_proc( "seed_proc.yaml" )
```
---

### 2. `generate_amp( <process file>; <model directory list> )`

Generate Feynman diagrams and relevant amplitudes according to the process input file previously generated by `digest_seed_proc`.
And the model file will be searched in the given model directory. 

For example,

```julia
generate_amp( "parton_parton_TO_parton_t_0Loop/b_u_TO_d_t.yaml" )
```
---

### 3. `construct_den_topology( <amplitude directory>; mom_shift_opt::Bool = true )`

Construct topologies for specific process, `mom_shift_opt` for doing the momentum shift or not.

For example,

```julia
construct_den_topology( "b_g_TO_Wminus_t_2Loop/b_g_TO_Wminus_t_2Loop_amplitudes"; mom_shift_opt=true )
```

## Results

The results contain amplitudes in file `amp<number>.jld2` and `amp<number>.out` and the Feynman diagrams in file `visual_diagram<number>.tex`.
Explicitly one could use `lualatex visual_diagram<number>.tex` to generate PDF file with `tikz-feynman.sty`.

## Notice

Here we use directly the [UFO model files](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2012.01.022) stored in the `<model directory>`.

***NOTE:***
***If the UFO model files are based on Python2, one can convert them into Python3 scripts by using the script `2to3`, which may be found in for example `Python-3.8.1/Tools/scripts`***.
***Package `PyCall.jl` can be build with relevant version of Python. The method can be found in its [GitHub homepage](https://github.com/JuliaPy/PyCall.jl).***

## Documentation

Full documentation can be generated by using `julia make.jl` in `docs`.

## License

MIT license.

## Citations

The corresponding paper is preprinted as [arXiv:2310.07967 [hep-ph]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.07634).

If you use this package in your research work, please cite this paper via
```bibtex
@article{Wu:2023qbr,
    author = "Wu, Quan-feng and Li, Zhao",
    title = "{FeAmGen.jl: A Julia Program for Feynman Amplitude Generation}",
    eprint = "2310.07634",
    archivePrefix = "arXiv",
    primaryClass = "hep-ph",
    month = "10",
    year = "2023"
}
```
